Simple Network Management Protocal:- It is introduced in 1988,before that SGMP (Simple Gatway Management of Protocal)
---------------------------------
1. It is nothing but Manager-Agent Model
2. It works Based on MIB(Management Information Base) -- This is nothing but set of commands
3. If we want to communicate Manager-Agent Model we have to use MIB.
4. If we want to see whether two systems having connectivity or not using Ping command in SNMP
   Ping will send echo packets to those systems , if we will not receive echo response then it will say there is not connection
   between the systems.
5. Spiceworks,Zabbix,OpenNms are software in this software we have snmp for tracking the LAN information.
6. Installing SNMP in that system we can call Manager remaining systems we can call Agents.
7. We have two main features
   1. getResponse
   2. Traps
8. Before installing snmp we want to enable snmp firewall in our system.Because by default our system firewall it will block the 
   SNMP 
9. SNMP Protocal will always work on UDP Ports.

Networking Devices:--
-----------------------
1. Repeater
2. Hub
3. Switch
4. Bridge
5. Router
6. Firewalls

Hub:--    It is not an Intellegent Device
-----     It works with MIBS
          User BroadCast for communication
          Bandwidth is shared
          Half-duplex communication
          It is not secure
Example:--   Suppeose Hub is connecting 4 systems
             like a,b,c,d
             for a system communicate to b but in this case a system some broad cast send to Hub , then hub will transfer to 
             all systems , then d system will respose to a in this case data is sending to all system , in this case data is
             not secure.
       Note: Here Half-duplex means suppose A sending some data to D system in this case at the same time D system will send
             any data to A.

Switch:-- Here Switchs are two types
          1. Managed   -- Configure(Costly)
          2. Un Managed -- Not configure
          
          1. It is an Intelligent Device
          2. It maintains MAC address table(hardware address)
          3. Each port of the switch has fixed bandwidth
          4. It works with flooding and unicast
          5. Supports full-duplex communication

Repeater: -- Mainly using wifi connections
             Forwarding signal from one system to another system
Bridge : -  Mainly using LANS it means while communicationg one LAN to another LAN in between we are using Bridges.

Router:-- This is the king of networks
          It will communicate suppose one LAN is having one city another LAN having another city it will communicate through
          Routers.
Firwall:-- It will work like Routers providing security.

MAC:--Media Access Control It is available in Datalink layer
      It contains 6 bytes or 40 bits 


          
             
             

   
